= email_validator ActiveModel::EachValidator

Validate e-mail addresses against RFC 2822 and RFC 3696.

== Installation

  gem 'vjt-email_validator', :git => 'git://github.com/vjt/email_validator'

== Usage

Standalone:

  EmailValidator.valid?(email) # => true or false

Inside an ActiveRecord model:

  class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
    validates :email, :email => true
  end

=== Options

Giving `:email => true` to the `validate` method uses the following default options.
Customize them using `:email => { .. }`; E.g. `:email => {:check_mx => true}`

  :message
     String. A custom error message (default is: "does not appear to be a valid e-mail address")
  :mx_message
     String. A custom error message displayed when there is no MX for the given e-mail address
     (default is: "is not routable")
  :multiple_message
     String. A custom error message displayed when one of the e-mail addresses in the record
     is invalid (default is "appears to contain an invalid e-mail address)
  :multiple
     Boolean. Allows multiple email addresses separated by space and/or comma/colon
  :check_mx
     Boolean. Check domain for a valid MX record (default is false)
  :local_length
    Maximum number of characters allowed in the local part (default is 64)
  :domain_length
    Maximum number of characters allowed in the domain part (default is 255)

== Testing

To execute the unit tests run <tt>rake test</tt>.

The unit tests for this plugin use an in-memory sqlite3 database.

== Resources

* Based on http://github.com/alexdunae/validates_email_format_of
* http://github.com/vjt/email_validator

== Original Credits

Written by Alex Dunae (dunae.ca), 2006-11.

Many thanks to the plugin's recent contributors: https://github.com/alexdunae/validates_email_format_of/contributors

Thanks to Francis Hwang (http://fhwang.net/) at Diversion Media for creating the 1.1 update.
Thanks to Travis Sinnott for creating the 1.3 update.
Thanks to Denis Ahearn at Riverock Technologies (http://www.riverocktech.com/) for creating the 1.4 update.
Thanks to George Anderson (http://github.com/george) and 'history' (http://github.com/history) for creating the 1.4.1 update.

== Rewrite

Rewrote by Marcello Barnaba (vjt@openssl.it), 2011-02 as an ActiveModel::EachValidator
